# Basketball GM Simulation Game

Pick a team, and try to win a league of randomly generated players.

# Simulation Features

## Player

### Archetype

Every player has their stats determined by an archetype. Each position has two possible archetypes:

- Playmaker: PG
- Sharpshooter: PG, SG
- Slasher: SG, SF
- Lockdown: SF, PF
- Stretch Big: PF, C
- Rebounder: C

### Stats

Each player has stats that determine how they perform in game simulation. They are updated each in game year. They are the following 9:

Offense

- Inside shot
- Midrange shot
- 3 pt shot
- Passing

Defense

- Inside defense
- Midrange defense
- 3 pt defense
- Stealing

Other

- Rebounding

### Rating and Potential

Each player has their own rating calculated from their stats. They also have a potential which determines how much their stats can improve each year, and the younger the player, the higher the potential generally.

### Contract

Each player has a contract for a certain amount of money, and a number of years left. Teams cannot exceed a limit on paying players per year.

## Game

### Simulation

Games are procedurally played possession by possession for each team. A possession is ended by a shot or a steal. Players occupy one of 4 locations on the court each possession, chosen based on their archetype.

### Box Score

At the end of each game, each player will have a complete box score. This shows all stats tracked in regular basketball, such as assists and blocks.

## League

### Regular Season

For now, each team is scheduled to play each other team once during the regular season. In the future, it is planned to be realistic to the NBA, with conferences and divisions determining the matchups.

### Playoffs

Like the NBA, the top 8 teams in each conference makes it to the playoffs. The playoffs follow the same best of 7 format.

### Draft

Following the playoffs, there is a draft for new players to be added to teams. The draft order is based on performance in the playoffs and regular season.

### Free Agents

The undrafted players are added to free agency. Teams are free to add players as long as they have space on roster and cap space.

## Tech Stack

- Typescript transpiled using Babel
- Eslint used for linting project
- Jest used for unit testing

Other than that, all the work of simulation is using objects and fuctions.

# Client

The client is a static website generated by Gatsby. It uses modern React features such as Hooks and Context, and also uses the Chakra UI component library. It also is written in Typescript.
